# Analyzing-Cricket-Songs-with-Machine-Learning

The "Cricket_Song_Analysis_and_Classification_Dimensionality_Reduction.ipynb" file contains all the code required to create t-SNE plots for the 3 different audio features we extracted from the SINA and MCL joint dataset. The SINA/MCL files are inside the ".wav Files/" directory in the Shared Google Drive called "Analyzing Cricket Songs with Machine Learning". The mel spectrogram, MFCCs, and magnitude power spectrum plots are also stored in the shared drive. Lastly, the t-SNE plots for the 3 audio features are also in the shared drive. 

The "Cricket_Song_Analysis_and_Classification_Neural_Networks.ipynb" file contains all the code required to create the genus and species classification models using mel spectrograms as input. For the species classification models, we used a different dataset than the SINA/MCL joint dataset. This different dataset contains 607 audio files for species in the Gryllus genus. The directory name in the shared drive that contains these files is called "species in gryllus genus .wav files/". Also in the shared drive is a directory called "saved models/", which stores the states for all the models we created. Note that the model states currently stored in the shared drive are not the same ones talked about in the final thesis because we didn't realize we could save the model states until after we finished the thesis. Nonetheless, the models currently saved exhibit similar metrics to the ones discussed in the final thesis. You can also overwrite our saved models with models of your own. Further research needs to be done on optimal batch size. 
